---
layout: post
title:  "The Train"
date:   2017-03-25 00:22:20 +0530
categories: ramblings
---
I am putting pen to paper (or fingers to keyboard) after some time. Writing blog posts in the middle of the semester requires a certain amount of giving up on the outcome of the end-semester exam, which in turn requires some to pass so that all the reserves of ‘semester-caring’ built up during the mid-semester break are well and truly exhausted, which explains the lack of posts.

So I came back to college after spending a week at home during my mid-semester break, and since my college in Kanpur is 1000+ kilometres from my hometown of Kolkata, it involved a longish train journey. Now, I like train journeys infinitely better than flights, because there are beautiful sights to be seen as the train traverses the countryside, and I don’t need to force myself to fit into the tiny area that the airline deems me worthy of. 

The train journey from Kolkata to Kanpur cuts through the India’s agricultural heartland - most of the journey is through green fields stretching to the horizon, and it is pretty mesmerising. That view along with the friendly oscillations of the train itself never fails to put me into a deeply content mood, which I either spend day-dreaming or indulging in lazy conversation with the people accompanying me (my parents in this case).  In this particular case, I was making my mother watch the third season of ‘Sherlock’, and I was slipping into moderately long day-dreams where I was Sherlock Holmes actually doing all those deductions (how cool would that be?). It was then that the train crossed Durgapur, an industrial town in the same state as Kolkata, and a host of old memories came flooding back. 

I know the Durgapur station pretty well. I had spent several of the Durga Puja [^1] vacations of my childhood in the city, visiting the home of my maternal grandparents. The visits have grown rather infrequent over the years, but I still remember the broad and mostly empty roads and large playing fields as the place where I learned cycling for the second time, and the plentiful flower bushes as the source of my childhood experiments in flower-garland making. The station also holds several memories from a time when I was half as tall as I am now. Memories of going to visit the board saying the name of the station that also mentioned the height above mid-sea level (also the catalyst of my first geography lesson, from my grandfather). I also remember one particular scene, a red-and-yellow fully air-conditioned train moving at full speed past the platforms, never stopping. The compartment containing the air conditioning (at that time) making a noise that sounded powerful to my young ears. I used to be curious as to why this particular train never stopped whereas most of the other trains did. The explanation would come from my mother, or father, or grandfather, that it was the most prestigious train on the route, the Rajdhani Express, and it didn’t stop at all stations. Also there was another Rajdhani Express on the same route, and that would indeed stop at that station. Lo and behold, as we waited for our own train to arrive, the other Rajdhani Express would appear. Also red-and-gold, also fully air-conditioned, also with a noisy air-conditioning compartment, it would indeed stop there, inviting another reminiscence about the time my grandfather went to Germany 40 years back, and my mother and grandmother had come to see him off. This particular train always carried the image of a royal carriage, not caring what was in the way, but simply brushing aside all obstacles on the way to its destination.

